README.md, before:

# TKR News Gatherer

A Python-based news collection and AI processing system for Canadian provincial news with multiple host personalities.

## Features

- 🇨🇦 **Canadian Provincial News**: Fetches news from all 13 Canadian provinces and territories
- 🤖 **AI Host Personalities**: Process news with 3 different AI personalities (anchor, friend, newsreel)
- 🕷️ **Web Scraping**: Full article content extraction using Crawl4ai
- 🗄️ **Database Integration**: Optional Supabase PostgreSQL storage
- 🚀 **FastAPI**: Modern async REST API
- 🐳 **Docker Ready**: Containerized for easy deployment
- ☁️ **RunPod Compatible**: Serverless deployment support

## AI Host Personalities

1. **Professional News Anchor**: Authoritative, clear, and objective delivery
2. **Friendly Neighbor**: Warm, conversational, and relatable style
3. **1940s Newsreel**: Dramatic, theatrical, and vintage announcer

## Quick Start

### 1. Environment Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd tkr-news-gather

# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit .env with your API keys
nano .env
```

### 2. Required Environment Variables

```bash
# Anthropic API (Required)
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_anthropic_api_key_here

# Supabase (Required for secure API - includes authentication)
SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url_here
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key_here

# Security (Optional but recommended)
JWT_SECRET_KEY=your_jwt_secret_key_here
API_KEYS=your_api_key1,your_api_key2
```

### 3. Installation Options

#### Option A: Local Development
```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run locally
python run_local.py

# Or start the API server
python -m uvicorn src.main:app --reload
```

#### Option B: Docker
```bash
# Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up --build

# Or build Docker image manually
docker build -t tkr-news-gather .
docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file .env tkr-news-gather
```

### 4. API Usage

The FastAPI server runs on `http://localhost:8000` with automatic documentation at `/docs`.

#### Get News for a Province
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/news/Alberta?limit=5&scrape=true"
```

#### Process News with AI Personality
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/process/Alberta/anchor?limit=3"
```

#### Get All Provinces
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/provinces"
```

## API Endpoints

### News Collection
- `GET /news/{province}` - Get news for a province
- `POST /news` - Get news (POST body)
- `GET /provinces` - List all provinces

### AI Processing
- `POST /process` - Process articles with AI personality
- `GET /process/{province}/{host_type}` - Fetch and process latest news

### Web Scraping
- `POST /scrape` - Scrape specific URLs

### Pipeline
- `POST /pipeline/{province}` - Run complete news processing pipeline

### Database (if Supabase configured)
- `GET /sessions/{province}/latest` - Get latest session for province
- `GET /sessions/{session_id}/articles` - Get articles for session
- `GET /provinces/with-data` - Get provinces with data

## Project Structure

```
tkr-news-gather/
├── src/
│   ├── news/
│   │   ├── google_news_client.py    # Google News API integration
│   │   ├── article_scraper.py       # Web scraping with Crawl4ai
│   │   ├── news_processor.py        # AI processing with personalities
│   │   └── provinces.py             # Canadian province data
│   ├── utils/
│   │   ├── config.py                # Configuration management
│   │   ├── logger.py                # Logging utilities
│   │   ├── anthropic_client.py      # Claude AI client
│   │   └── supabase_client.py       # Database client
│   ├── api.py                       # Core API logic
│   └── main.py                      # FastAPI application
├── database/
│   └── schema.sql                   # Supabase database schema
├── tests/                           # Test files
├── Dockerfile                       # Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml              # Docker Compose setup
├── runpod_handler.py               # RunPod serverless handler
├── run_local.py                    # Local testing script
└── requirements.txt                # Python dependencies
```

## RunPod Deployment

For serverless deployment on RunPod:

1. **Build Docker Image**:
```bash
docker build -t tkr-news-gather .
```

2. **Push to Registry** (Docker Hub, etc.)

3. **Deploy on RunPod**:
   - Use the `runpod_handler.py` as the entry point
   - Set environment variables in RunPod dashboard
   - Configure endpoints as needed

### RunPod Handler Usage

```python
# Example RunPod request
{
    "input": {
        "action": "get_news",
        "province": "Alberta", 
        "limit": 10,
        "scrape": true
    }
}
```

## Database Setup

### For New Projects (Recommended)

1. Create a new Supabase project at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. Run the complete schema with authentication:
   ```sql
   -- Copy and paste the content of database/schema_with_auth.sql
   -- into your Supabase SQL editor
   ```
3. Set environment variables in `.env`
4. The API will have full authentication and database functionality

### For Existing Projects

If you already have the basic schema from `database/schema.sql`:

1. Apply the authentication migration:
   ```sql
   -- Copy and paste the content of database/auth_migration.sql
   -- into your Supabase SQL editor
   ```
2. Update environment variables to include authentication settings

### Database Schema Options

| File | Purpose | Use Case |
|------|---------|----------|
| `schema.sql` | Original news tables only | Legacy/basic setup |
| `auth_migration.sql` | Adds authentication to existing setup | Upgrading existing projects |
| `schema_with_auth.sql` | Complete schema with authentication | **New projects (recommended)** |

### Authentication Setup

After running the schema, you can:
- Register users via `/auth/register`
- Authenticate via `/auth/login` 
- Access protected endpoints with JWT tokens
- Use role-based permissions (user/editor/admin)

## Testing

```bash
# Run local tests
python run_local.py

# Test RunPod handler
python runpod_handler.py

# Test specific components
python -m pytest tests/
```

## Configuration

All configuration is managed through environment variables. See `.env.example` for all available options.

### Key Settings
- `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`: Required for AI processing
- `DEFAULT_NEWS_LIMIT`: Default number of articles to fetch (10)
- `SCRAPE_TIMEOUT`: Web scraping timeout in seconds (30)
- `LOG_LEVEL`: Logging level (INFO)

## Development

### Adding New Provinces
Edit `src/news/provinces.py` to add or modify province configurations.

### Adding New Host Personalities
Modify `src/news/news_processor.py` to add new AI personalities.

### Extending API
Add new endpoints in `src/main.py` following FastAPI patterns.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Missing API Key**: Ensure `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` is set
2. **Scraping Failures**: Some sites may block automated scraping
3. **Database Connection**: Check Supabase credentials if using database
4. **Rate Limits**: Respect Google News and Anthropic API rate limits

### Logs

Set `LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG` for detailed logging information.

## License

[Add your license information here]

## Support

For issues and feature requests, please [create an issue](link-to-issues) in the repository.

Commit message:

feat(deployment): add complete RunPod deployment   infrastructure
  - Add interactive deployment script with RunPod API
  integration
  - Create runpod_handler.py for serverless execution
  with all actions
  - Optimize Docker build to create single image with
  username tag
  - Preserve .env.example format when generating
  credentials
  - Fix google_news_client dependency issues for Docker
  compatibility
  - Add comprehensive deployment documentation and guides

README.md, after:

# TKR News Gatherer

A Python-based news collection and AI processing system for Canadian provincial news with multiple host personalities.

## Features

- 🇨🇦 **Canadian Provincial News**: Fetches news from all 13 Canadian provinces and territories
- 🤖 **AI Host Personalities**: Process news with 3 different AI personalities (anchor, friend, newsreel)
- 🕷️ **Web Scraping**: Full article content extraction using Crawl4ai
- 🗄️ **Database Integration**: Optional Supabase PostgreSQL storage
- 🚀 **FastAPI**: Modern async REST API
- 🐳 **Docker Ready**: Containerized for easy deployment
- ☁️ **RunPod Compatible**: Serverless deployment support

## AI Host Personalities

1. **Professional News Anchor**: Authoritative, clear, and objective delivery
2. **Friendly Neighbor**: Warm, conversational, and relatable style
3. **1940s Newsreel**: Dramatic, theatrical, and vintage announcer

## Quick Start

### 1. Environment Setup

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd tkr-news-gather

# Copy environment template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit .env with your API keys
nano .env
```

### 2. Required Environment Variables

```bash
# Anthropic API (Required)
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_anthropic_api_key_here

# Supabase (Required for secure API - includes authentication)
SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url_here
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key_here

# Security (Optional but recommended)
JWT_SECRET_KEY=your_jwt_secret_key_here
API_KEYS=your_api_key1,your_api_key2
```

### 3. Installation Options

#### Option A: Local Development
```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run locally
python run_local.py

# Or start the API server
python -m uvicorn src.main:app --reload
```

#### Option B: Docker
```bash
# Build and run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up --build

# Or build Docker image manually
docker build -t tkr-news-gather .
docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file .env tkr-news-gather
```

### 4. API Usage

The FastAPI server runs on `http://localhost:8000` with automatic documentation at `/docs`.

#### Get News for a Province
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/news/Alberta?limit=5&scrape=true"
```

#### Process News with AI Personality
```bash
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/process/Alberta/anchor?limit=3"
```

#### Get All Provinces
```bash
curl "http://localhost:8000/provinces"
```

## API Endpoints

### News Collection
- `GET /news/{province}` - Get news for a province
- `POST /news` - Get news (POST body)
- `GET /provinces` - List all provinces

### AI Processing
- `POST /process` - Process articles with AI personality
- `GET /process/{province}/{host_type}` - Fetch and process latest news

### Web Scraping
- `POST /scrape` - Scrape specific URLs

### Pipeline
- `POST /pipeline/{province}` - Run complete news processing pipeline

### Database (if Supabase configured)
- `GET /sessions/{province}/latest` - Get latest session for province
- `GET /sessions/{session_id}/articles` - Get articles for session
- `GET /provinces/with-data` - Get provinces with data

## Project Structure

```
tkr-news-gather/
├── src/
│   ├── news/
│   │   ├── google_news_client.py    # Google News API integration
│   │   ├── article_scraper.py       # Web scraping with Crawl4ai
│   │   ├── news_processor.py        # AI processing with personalities
│   │   └── provinces.py             # Canadian province data
│   ├── utils/
│   │   ├── config.py                # Configuration management
│   │   ├── logger.py                # Logging utilities
│   │   ├── anthropic_client.py      # Claude AI client
│   │   └── supabase_client.py       # Database client
│   ├── api.py                       # Core API logic
│   └── main.py                      # FastAPI application
├── database/
│   └── schema.sql                   # Supabase database schema
├── tests/                           # Test files
├── Dockerfile                       # Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml              # Docker Compose setup
├── runpod_handler.py               # RunPod serverless handler
├── run_local.py                    # Local testing script
└── requirements.txt                # Python dependencies
```

## RunPod Deployment

### 🚀 Automated Deployment (Recommended)

Use the interactive deployment script for complete automated setup:

```bash
# Run the interactive deployment wizard
make deploy-runpod

# Or run directly
python3 deploy.py
```

The script will:
- ✅ Build and push Docker image automatically
- ✅ Generate all security credentials (JWT, API keys)
- ✅ Create RunPod template and endpoint via API
- ✅ Test the deployed endpoint
- ✅ Generate complete documentation

### 📋 Manual Deployment

For manual deployment on RunPod:

1. **Build Docker Image**:
```bash
docker build -t tkr-news-gather .
```

2. **Push to Registry** (Docker Hub, etc.)

3. **Deploy on RunPod**:
   - Use the `runpod_handler.py` as the entry point
   - Set environment variables in RunPod dashboard
   - Configure endpoints as needed

### RunPod Handler Usage

```python
# Example RunPod request
{
    "input": {
        "action": "get_news",
        "province": "Alberta", 
        "limit": 10,
        "scrape": true
    }
}
```

## Database Setup

### For New Projects (Recommended)

1. Create a new Supabase project at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. Run the complete schema with authentication:
   ```sql
   -- Copy and paste the content of database/schema_with_auth.sql
   -- into your Supabase SQL editor
   ```
3. Set environment variables in `.env`
4. The API will have full authentication and database functionality

### For Existing Projects

If you already have the basic schema from `database/schema.sql`:

1. Apply the authentication migration:
   ```sql
   -- Copy and paste the content of database/auth_migration.sql
   -- into your Supabase SQL editor
   ```
2. Update environment variables to include authentication settings

### Database Schema Options

| File | Purpose | Use Case |
|------|---------|----------|
| `schema.sql` | Original news tables only | Legacy/basic setup |
| `auth_migration.sql` | Adds authentication to existing setup | Upgrading existing projects |
| `schema_with_auth.sql` | Complete schema with authentication | **New projects (recommended)** |

### Authentication Setup

After running the schema, you can:
- Register users via `/auth/register`
- Authenticate via `/auth/login` 
- Access protected endpoints with JWT tokens
- Use role-based permissions (user/editor/admin)

## Testing

```bash
# Run local tests
python run_local.py

# Test RunPod handler
python runpod_handler.py

# Test specific components
python -m pytest tests/
```

## Configuration

All configuration is managed through environment variables. See `.env.example` for all available options.

### Key Settings
- `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`: Required for AI processing
- `DEFAULT_NEWS_LIMIT`: Default number of articles to fetch (10)
- `SCRAPE_TIMEOUT`: Web scraping timeout in seconds (30)
- `LOG_LEVEL`: Logging level (INFO)

## Development

### Adding New Provinces
Edit `src/news/provinces.py` to add or modify province configurations.

### Adding New Host Personalities
Modify `src/news/news_processor.py` to add new AI personalities.

### Extending API
Add new endpoints in `src/main.py` following FastAPI patterns.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Missing API Key**: Ensure `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` is set
2. **Scraping Failures**: Some sites may block automated scraping
3. **Database Connection**: Check Supabase credentials if using database
4. **Rate Limits**: Respect Google News and Anthropic API rate limits

### Logs

Set `LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG` for detailed logging information.

## License

[Add your license information here]

## Support

For issues and feature requests, please [create an issue](link-to-issues) in the repository.
